---
name: ZEK (2012)
thumbnail: thumb_zek2012.jpg
cover: ZEKcrew_WannaSeat_web01_cover.jpg
description:  An exhibition of objects marking ZEK’s 11,8 year jubilee (Abandoned bomb shelter, Ljubljana / 2012)
order: 200
---

Wanna Seat? (2012)
holes in chair

Enfant terrible of the Slovenian design scene, the ZEK Crew, burrowing through the interspaces of contemporary art, street art and design, set up an exhibition in May 2012, a sort of a retrospect, marking their 11.8th jubilee. The works, displayed in a bunker, were crafted in a do-it-yourself fashion of artistic avant-gardes of the previous century.

Although the auratisaton of the group is just a euphemism for branding, this process cannot be repudiated, but, evidently, public visibility does not exclude quality of expression. So what do the conceptual jokers have in store this time around? The dramaturgy, linking the chambers of the bunker, which abounds with a new, uomo universale-like approach and a focus on three-dimensionality, once again reflects their elusiveness and perfectionism. Defined by clarity of surprisingly palpable ideas, bound into their own pop-internet era, they are poetic in tangibility and incorrigibly inclined to absurdity, the banal, vulgarity, cynicism, satire, irony, and verbal-visual witticisms. Whether a mark of superiority, a hedonistic experience, an outlet for the unconscious or a tool of sexual selection, humour sheds a personal light on the object, rendering it unequivocally familiar, cathartic, and often better than cautious argumentation. A socially specific phenomenon, it helps forge and enhance ties, but can equally be a source of tension in a communicative relationship. The incongruity between the expected and the real demands the immediate abandonment of typical roles and the conventional ways of thinking. The ZEK Crew insists on this humorously unhindered, but potentially subversive, Weltanschauung. Baldessari summarizes it best: They will not make any more boring art.

Lara Plavčak


{{> img src="1339241520_ZEKcrew_HeadsOrTails_web01.jpg" }}

{{> label title="Heads or Tails? (2012)" description="mixed media" }}

{{> img src="1339240273_ZEKcrew_StagParty_web01.jpg" }}

{{> label title="Stag Party (2012)" description="horn, metal, cork and a bit of wine" }}

{{> img src="1339240379_ZEKcrew_WhatRight_web01.jpg" }}

{{> label title="What Right? (2012)" description="sheet metal" }}

{{> img src="1339239803_ZEKcrew_SpaceJesus_web01.jpg" }}

{{> label title="Space Jesus (2012)" description="mixed media with lobsters" }}

{{> img src="1339241062_ZEKcrew_KEZ_web01.jpg" }}

{{> label title="KEZ (2012)" description="mirror" }}

{{> img src="1339241161_ZEKcrew_Creamcakes_web01.jpg" }}

{{> label title="Cream Cakes (2012)" description="granite" }}

{{> img src="1339238982_ZEKcrew_TheDarkReverend_web01.jpg" }}

{{> label title="The Dark Reverend (2012)" description="wood, acrylic paint, polyester mini" }}

{{> img src="1339240122_ZEKcrew_IntergalacticPlanetaryPlanetaryIntergalactic_web01.jpg" }}

{{> label title="Intergalactic, Planetary, Planetary, Intergalactic (2012)" description="Rotring 0.5mm on dark paper" }}

{{> img src="1339242232_ZEKcrew_Allen_web01.jpg" }}

{{> label title="Allen (2011)" description=" polymer clay, acrylic paint / property of Sproščeni četrtek collection" }}

{{> img src="1339241898_ZEKcrew_LetThemLive_web01.jpg" }}

{{> label title="Let Them Be (2012)" description="button" }}

{{> img src="1339242146_ZEKcrew_Scribble_web01.jpg" }}

{{> label title="Scribble (2007)" description="scribble / with Martin Šoštarič" }}

{{> img src="1339241617_ZEKcrew_GodBalls_web01.jpg" }}

{{> label title="God Balls? (2012)" description="God’s balls on ceiling" }}

{{> img src="1339241713_ZEKcrew_CX_web01.jpg" }}

{{> label title="CX (2012)" description="stainless steel, Sugino bolts" }}

{{> img src="1339239235_ZEKcrew_Multiply_web01.jpg" }}

{{> label title="Multiply (2012)" description=" print on foils / photo Vladimir & vladimir" }}

{{> img src="1339239490_ZEKcrew_TheMatterOfSpaceIsOnlyAMatterOfTime_web01.jpg" }}

{{> label title="The Matter of Space is Only a Matter of Time (2012)" description="iron zero point" }}

{{> img src="1339241441_ZEKcrew_cactus_web01.jpg" }}

{{> label title="Ψ (2011)" description="mixed media / with Martin Šoštarič & Andraž Tarman" }}

{{> img src="1339240910_ZEKcrew_Bricks_web01.jpg" }}

{{> label title="Bricks (2012)" description="graphic series" }}

{{> img src="1339241248_ZEKcrew_PerfectBalance_web01.jpg" }}

{{> label title="Perfect Balance (2012)" description="acrylic paint on ferroconcrete" }}

{{> img src="1339239974_ZEKcrew_ZEK2004_web01.jpg" }}

{{> label title="ZEK (2014)" description="mixed media" }}

{{> img src="1339238858_ZEKcrew_YOLO_web01.jpg" }}

{{> label title="YOLO (2012)" description="tattoo" }}

{{> img src="1339240569_ZEKcrew_Was_web01.jpg" }}

{{> label title="Was(2012)" description="(with Marko Marovt) stump, ghost" }}

{{> img src="1339240826_ZEKcrew_1969x1969x1969_web01.jpg" }}

{{> label title="19,69×19,69×19,69 (2012)" description="spray on canvas" }}

{{> img src="1339239739_ZEKcrew_BookOfImpressions_web01.jpg" }}

{{> label title="Book Of Impressions (2012)" description="book, impressions"  }}

{{> img src="1339240075_ZEKcrew_Bad_web01.jpg" }}

{{> label title="Bad (2012)" description="stamp, chain" }}

{{> img src="soba1.jpg" size="small" }}

{{> img src="soba2.jpg" size="small" }}

{{> img src="soba3.jpg" size="small" }}

{{ spacer }}{{ spacer }}

{{> img src="soba4.jpg" }}





